My name is Andrew Podnor aka Podinton Norr. I started going to gigs when I was 15 in 85, 86.
I sing or shout or attempt to get a message over whilst playing with an amazing band called Bosch.
It's been around for 20 years. My relationship with the music scene in Newport is well, I mean it's a little odd.
I've never really felt like that I was necessarily connected to any of it.
I always looked too old for my age, you know. I was quite a tall teenager and I looked old for my age.
Something that benefited me when I was younger but doesn't pay many dividends as one gets older.
However, you know, it meant that I could go and see gigs a lot sooner than most people were allowed to.
They didn't even ask for ID back then and the first venue I frequented was TJ's.
I think the first gig I went to see was the Membranes and I think the Abs were supporting and that was a particularly good night.
During the period when TJ's was open from say 85, 86 till 97, 98, I frequently went to TJ's to see the bands
because like you know Simon had the cheap, sweaty, fun sort of events and he had an astonishing taste for new and interesting
like some alt rock and punk music flooding in from America and Europe and it was a real education.
Then like you know things got a bit like sort of homogenized and Simon fell out with Johnny Sicolo over something or other.
The other promoters weren't quite as imaginative as Simon was and I started spending less time going to gigs
and more time thinking about generating or being involved in a band that would create gigs.
So that was a catalyst.
Seeing Swans was particularly amazing.
They were so loud and they were so beautifully bleak in their soundscapes
and they generated such an immensely emotive pull with their audience that you were just flabbergasted that a band could be that powerful.
It wasn't a mosh pit.
People tended to sway and whilst they were swaying we noticed that there was a patina of foam appearing on the dance floor at our feet
and then we looked up and we found out that like the noise was so loud that it was dismantling the foam cave facade of TJ's.
And that was a fascinating gig.
That's the one that really sticks in my mind.
I'll tell you what though, it did highlight the fact that like you know the whole thing was kind of principally an illusion
right down to the Gothic majesty of Swans music and it made me start to think along the lines of music being a formula to control the audience.
Well there were a lot of middle aged men which was odd because I was in my early 20s at the time and I thought wow you know.
Naturally you were shocked that something this magnificent could attract so many different age groups.
But as I got older I started to realize that like you know it was only through acquiring a knowledge of music and then dismantling that knowledge and wanting more
that you have these amazing moments with a band.
A band that like you know might not necessarily attract young audiences.
The Swans are notorious for their misanthropy and their negativity.
I've got to admit being a 50 year old middle aged man has led me to believe that like you know the 50 year old middle aged men that were watching Swans
were really getting something quite special out of that experience.
Like an attempt to deconstruct the residual and gradual trauma of their lives with sound.
It was a psychically eventful evening it was beautiful.
Yes it was crammed. It was crammed.
I don't think John was particularly happy though because like you know the band did almost sonically destroy his venue.
Which was hilarious.
That was probably 1987, 88 maybe.
It's difficult to tell because all of those gigs that I went to see they kind of blur into one and I've never been that interested in calendar dates and unlocking down on specific experiences
and remembering them in that fashion because I can't remember the day that it kind of happened or the night it happened.
It's still fresh in my mind almost as if I'm still there you know.
I can't remember who supported them.
I cannot remember to this day who supported the Swans because I think I missed the support act because we tended to traditionally go to the
the riverside tavern and have a few pints there and of course like a few pints back then when you were below drinking age but looked older was a hell of a draw.
It was an act of rebellion to drink in that manner.
So my friend Austin and I would go over there and get tanked up and then pop over and check out the main act generally.
So I think we might have missed who supported Swans on that apocryphal night but they were amazing.